README.md, before:

# viewnode
The `viewnode` shows Kubernetes cluster nodes with their pods and containers.
It is very useful when you need to monitor multiple resources such as nodes, pods or containers in a dynamic environment like a CI/CD platform.

```
The viewnode shows nodes with their pods and containers.
You can find the source code and usage documentation at GitHub: https://github.com/NTTDATA-EMEA/viewnode.

Usage:
  viewnode [flags]
  viewnode [command]

Available Commands:
  help        Help about any command
  version     Plugin Version

Flags:
  -A, --all-namespaces             use all namespaces
  -d, --debug                      run in debug mode (shows stack trace in case of errors)
  -h, --help                       help for viewnode
  -n, --namespace string           namespace to use
  -f, --node-filter string         show only nodes according to filter
  -p, --pod-filter string          show only pods according to filter
  -c, --show-containers            show containers in pod
  -t, --show-pod-start-times       show start times of pods
  -r, --show-requests-and-limits   show requests and limits for containers' cpu and memory (requires -c flag)
      --show-running-only          show running pods only

Use "viewnode [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```
## Installation
The `viewnode` is written in _go_, so just download the correct executable suitable for your platform from the [releases](https://github.com/NTTDATA-EMEA/viewnode/releases) and run it.
You can also download the source code and compile it.

If you copy the executable file into your PATH, you can use it like a `kubectl` command, i.e. without the hyphen:
```
kubectl viewnode --show-running-only
```

## Usage examples
Showing nodes and pods:
```
$ viewnode
namespace: jenkins-onprem
8 pod(s) in total
0 unscheduled pod(s)
3 running node(s) with 8 scheduled pod(s):
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-8fws running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-341-ffkt5-2k64t (running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-86-822pd-d6p3d (running)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-b0np running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-338-3wc8r-n1t7z (running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-340-cms5r-pxxq7 (running)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-v1vr running 4 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-337-4c4lm-q3mtp (running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-339-4x9dq-0xd3q (running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-342-r5khq-9cx2w (running)
  * liveness-test-4-boom (failed)
```
Showing nodes, pods and containers:
```
$ viewnode --show-containers
namespace: jenkins-onprem
8 pod(s) in total
0 unscheduled pod(s)
3 running node(s) with 8 scheduled pod(s):
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-8fws running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-341-ffkt5-2k64t (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-86-822pd-d6p3d (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/terminated)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-b0np running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-338-3wc8r-n1t7z (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-340-cms5r-pxxq7 (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-v1vr running 4 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-337-4c4lm-q3mtp (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-339-4x9dq-0xd3q (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-342-r5khq-9cx2w (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * liveness-test-4-boom (failed) (3: dead-container/terminated liveness1/running liveness2/running)
```
Showing nodes and pods with their start times:
```
$ viewnode --show-pod-start-times
namespace: jenkins-onprem
8 pod(s) in total
0 unscheduled pod(s)
3 running node(s) with 8 scheduled pod(s):
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-8fws running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-341-ffkt5-2k64t (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:04 CEST 2021)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-86-822pd-d6p3d (running/Thu Aug 19 09:09:20 CEST 2021)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-b0np running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-338-3wc8r-n1t7z (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:02 CEST 2021)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-340-cms5r-pxxq7 (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:04 CEST 2021)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-v1vr running 4 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-337-4c4lm-q3mtp (running/Thu Aug 26 09:35:36 CEST 2021)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-339-4x9dq-0xd3q (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:03 CEST 2021)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-342-r5khq-9cx2w (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:05 CEST 2021)
  * liveness-test-4-boom (failed/Wed Aug 25 15:07:52 CEST 2021)
```
You can also combine show options:
```
$ viewnode --show-pod-start-times --show-containers
namespace: jenkins-onprem
8 pod(s) in total
0 unscheduled pod(s)
3 running node(s) with 8 scheduled pod(s):
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-8fws running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-341-ffkt5-2k64t (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:04 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-86-822pd-d6p3d (running/Thu Aug 19 09:09:20 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/terminated)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-b0np running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-338-3wc8r-n1t7z (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:02 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-340-cms5r-pxxq7 (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:04 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-v1vr running 4 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-337-4c4lm-q3mtp (running/Thu Aug 26 09:35:36 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-339-4x9dq-0xd3q (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:03 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-342-r5khq-9cx2w (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:05 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * liveness-test-4-boom (failed/Wed Aug 25 15:07:52 CEST 2021) (3: dead-container/terminated liveness1/running liveness2/running)
```
As well as filter nodes and pods:
```
$ viewnode --node-filter v1vr
namespace: jenkins-onprem
4 pod(s) in total
0 unscheduled pod(s)
1 running node(s) with 4 scheduled pod(s):
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-v1vr running 4 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-337-4c4lm-q3mtp (running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-339-4x9dq-0xd3q (running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-342-r5khq-9cx2w (running)
  * liveness-test-4-boom (failed)
```
Very popular is combining `viewnode` with `watch` command e.g. watching all nodes, pods and containers every second can be configured as follows:
```
watch -n1 viewnode --show-pod-start-times --show-containers
```
# Compatibility
The `viewnode` was tested against _Google Cloud Platform_ with _Kubernetes_ v1.19.
It should however work with all clouds supported by [client-go](https://github.com/kubernetes/client-go).

Commit message:

update README.md with info about repository move

README.md, after:

Warning! This repository is archived and should not be used anymore. The active development was moved to the following repo: https://github.com/NTTDATA-DACH/viewnode

# viewnode
The `viewnode` shows Kubernetes cluster nodes with their pods and containers.
It is very useful when you need to monitor multiple resources such as nodes, pods or containers in a dynamic environment like a CI/CD platform.

```
The viewnode shows nodes with their pods and containers.
You can find the source code and usage documentation at GitHub: https://github.com/NTTDATA-EMEA/viewnode.

Usage:
  viewnode [flags]
  viewnode [command]

Available Commands:
  help        Help about any command
  version     Plugin Version

Flags:
  -A, --all-namespaces             use all namespaces
  -d, --debug                      run in debug mode (shows stack trace in case of errors)
  -h, --help                       help for viewnode
  -n, --namespace string           namespace to use
  -f, --node-filter string         show only nodes according to filter
  -p, --pod-filter string          show only pods according to filter
  -c, --show-containers            show containers in pod
  -t, --show-pod-start-times       show start times of pods
  -r, --show-requests-and-limits   show requests and limits for containers' cpu and memory (requires -c flag)
      --show-running-only          show running pods only

Use "viewnode [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```
## Installation
The `viewnode` is written in _go_, so just download the correct executable suitable for your platform from the [releases](https://github.com/NTTDATA-EMEA/viewnode/releases) and run it.
You can also download the source code and compile it.

If you copy the executable file into your PATH, you can use it like a `kubectl` command, i.e. without the hyphen:
```
kubectl viewnode --show-running-only
```

## Usage examples
Showing nodes and pods:
```
$ viewnode
namespace: jenkins-onprem
8 pod(s) in total
0 unscheduled pod(s)
3 running node(s) with 8 scheduled pod(s):
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-8fws running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-341-ffkt5-2k64t (running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-86-822pd-d6p3d (running)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-b0np running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-338-3wc8r-n1t7z (running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-340-cms5r-pxxq7 (running)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-v1vr running 4 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-337-4c4lm-q3mtp (running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-339-4x9dq-0xd3q (running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-342-r5khq-9cx2w (running)
  * liveness-test-4-boom (failed)
```
Showing nodes, pods and containers:
```
$ viewnode --show-containers
namespace: jenkins-onprem
8 pod(s) in total
0 unscheduled pod(s)
3 running node(s) with 8 scheduled pod(s):
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-8fws running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-341-ffkt5-2k64t (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-86-822pd-d6p3d (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/terminated)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-b0np running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-338-3wc8r-n1t7z (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-340-cms5r-pxxq7 (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-v1vr running 4 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-337-4c4lm-q3mtp (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-339-4x9dq-0xd3q (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-342-r5khq-9cx2w (running) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * liveness-test-4-boom (failed) (3: dead-container/terminated liveness1/running liveness2/running)
```
Showing nodes and pods with their start times:
```
$ viewnode --show-pod-start-times
namespace: jenkins-onprem
8 pod(s) in total
0 unscheduled pod(s)
3 running node(s) with 8 scheduled pod(s):
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-8fws running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-341-ffkt5-2k64t (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:04 CEST 2021)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-86-822pd-d6p3d (running/Thu Aug 19 09:09:20 CEST 2021)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-b0np running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-338-3wc8r-n1t7z (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:02 CEST 2021)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-340-cms5r-pxxq7 (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:04 CEST 2021)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-v1vr running 4 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-337-4c4lm-q3mtp (running/Thu Aug 26 09:35:36 CEST 2021)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-339-4x9dq-0xd3q (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:03 CEST 2021)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-342-r5khq-9cx2w (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:05 CEST 2021)
  * liveness-test-4-boom (failed/Wed Aug 25 15:07:52 CEST 2021)
```
You can also combine show options:
```
$ viewnode --show-pod-start-times --show-containers
namespace: jenkins-onprem
8 pod(s) in total
0 unscheduled pod(s)
3 running node(s) with 8 scheduled pod(s):
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-8fws running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-341-ffkt5-2k64t (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:04 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-86-822pd-d6p3d (running/Thu Aug 19 09:09:20 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/terminated)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-b0np running 2 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-338-3wc8r-n1t7z (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:02 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-340-cms5r-pxxq7 (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:04 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-v1vr running 4 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-337-4c4lm-q3mtp (running/Thu Aug 26 09:35:36 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-339-4x9dq-0xd3q (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:03 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-342-r5khq-9cx2w (running/Thu Aug 26 09:36:05 CEST 2021) (3: default/running docker-daemon/running jnlp/running)
  * liveness-test-4-boom (failed/Wed Aug 25 15:07:52 CEST 2021) (3: dead-container/terminated liveness1/running liveness2/running)
```
As well as filter nodes and pods:
```
$ viewnode --node-filter v1vr
namespace: jenkins-onprem
4 pod(s) in total
0 unscheduled pod(s)
1 running node(s) with 4 scheduled pod(s):
- gke-dcgsecigke001-dcgsecigke001-linux-1cd8c3b9-v1vr running 4 pod(s) (linux/amd64)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-337-4c4lm-q3mtp (running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-339-4x9dq-0xd3q (running)
  * docker-in-the-cloud-342-r5khq-9cx2w (running)
  * liveness-test-4-boom (failed)
```
Very popular is combining `viewnode` with `watch` command e.g. watching all nodes, pods and containers every second can be configured as follows:
```
watch -n1 viewnode --show-pod-start-times --show-containers
```
# Compatibility
The `viewnode` was tested against _Google Cloud Platform_ with _Kubernetes_ v1.19.
It should however work with all clouds supported by [client-go](https://github.com/kubernetes/client-go).
